
Deep Learning for Population Genetic Inference.

Given genomic variation data from multiple individuals, computing the likelihood 
of complex population genetic models is often infeasible. To circumvent this
problem, we introduce a novel likelihood-free inference framework by applying
deep learning, a powerful modern technique in machine learning. Deep learning
makes use of multilayer neural networks to learn a feature-based function from
the input (e.g., hundreds of correlated summary statistics of data) to the output
(e.g., population genetic parameters of interest). We demonstrate that deep
learning can be effectively employed for population genetic inference and
learning informative features of data. As a concrete application, we focus on the
challenging problem of jointly inferring natural selection and demography (in the
form of a population size change history). Our method is able to separate the
global nature of demography from the local nature of selection, without
sequential steps for these two factors. Studying demography and selection jointly
is motivated by Drosophila, where pervasive selection confounds demographic
analysis. We apply our method to 197 African Drosophila melanogaster genomes from
Zambia to infer both their overall demography, and regions of their genome under 
selection. We find many regions of the genome that have experienced hard sweeps, 
and fewer under selection on standing variation (soft sweep) or balancing
selection. Interestingly, we find that soft sweeps and balancing selection occur 
more frequently closer to the centromere of each chromosome. In addition, our
demographic inference suggests that previously estimated bottlenecks for African 
Drosophila melanogaster are too extreme.

