
IPMiner: hidden ncRNA-protein interaction sequential pattern mining with stacked 
autoencoder for accurate computational prediction.

BACKGROUND: Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) play crucial roles in many biological
processes, such as post-transcription of gene regulation. ncRNAs mainly function 
through interaction with RNA binding proteins (RBPs). To understand the function 
of a ncRNA, a fundamental step is to identify which protein is involved into its 
interaction. Therefore it is promising to computationally predict RBPs, where the
major challenge is that the interaction pattern or motif is difficult to be
found.
RESULTS: In this study, we propose a computational method IPMiner (Interaction
Pattern Miner) to predict ncRNA-protein interactions from sequences, which makes 
use of deep learning and further improves its performance using stacked
ensembling. One of the IPMiner's typical merits is that it is able to mine the
hidden sequential interaction patterns from sequence composition features of
protein and RNA sequences using stacked autoencoder, and then the learned hidden 
features are fed into random forest models. Finally, stacked ensembling is used
to integrate different predictors to further improve the prediction performance. 
The experimental results indicate that IPMiner achieves superior performance on
the tested lncRNA-protein interaction dataset with an accuracy of 0.891,
sensitivity of 0.939, specificity of 0.831, precision of 0.945 and Matthews
correlation coefficient of 0.784, respectively. We further comprehensively
investigate IPMiner on other RNA-protein interaction datasets, which yields
better performance than the state-of-the-art methods, and the performance has an 
increase of over 20 % on some tested benchmarked datasets. In addition, we
further apply IPMiner for large-scale prediction of ncRNA-protein network, that
achieves promising prediction performance.
CONCLUSION: By integrating deep neural network and stacked ensembling, from
simple sequence composition features, IPMiner can automatically learn high-level 
abstraction features, which had strong discriminant ability for RNA-protein
detection. IPMiner achieved high performance on our constructed lncRNA-protein
benchmark dataset and other RNA-protein datasets. IPMiner tool is available at
http://www.csbio.sjtu.edu.cn/bioinf/IPMiner .


